Organization
Being organized can suggest that you manage your time efficiently and work well on your own.

How do you stay organized? 

How do you determine priorities?

How do you manage competing demands?   

What they’re really asking: What kind of management style do you need? Can you work autonomously or do you need a lot of structure and direction?  

What your answer can feature: Tools. 
Beyond sharing past examples about how you’ve stayed organized or reprioritized your work, mention any tools you use to accomplish those tasks and stay on top of things. 





Communication
Effective communication has many forms, including written and verbal communication, and can explain a lot about how you work with others and how you convey important information.

Tell us about a time when a miscommunication created an error at work. What happened and what did you contribute to the solution? 

Describe a time when you effectively communicated unpleasant news or a difficult idea.

How do you respond to constructive feedback? 

What they’re really asking: How do you communicate with others? How will you interact with your team members? 

What your answer can feature: Clarity. Behavioral interview questions that pertain to communication provide you with a chance to show off your skills rather than simply recount them.




Decision making 
Analytical and creative thinking top the World Economic Forum's list of most important skills in 2023, and speak to your ability to problem solve and make decisions [1].

Tell us about a time when you had to make a decision quickly. What happened? 

What steps do you take to ensure that your decisions are effective? 

What was a difficult decision you had to make in the last year? What made it difficult?

What they’re really asking: Can you think critically? Do you have problem-solving experience?  

What your answer can feature: Process. Talk about your decision-making process as much as the actual decisions you made.




Initiative 
Rather than wait for someone to tell you what to do, showing initiative means that you're a critical thinker who understands a business need and works to fulfill it.

Tell us about a time when you identified a problem, and how you came up with the solution. 

How did you go beyond the expectations or requirements of your previous role? 

Did you ever find a better way to complete a task? What did you do? 

What they’re really asking: Are you a self-starter? In what type of situation do you feel comfortable taking the lead?  

What your answer can feature: Impact. Pick examples that emphasize an impact you had—even a small one—as a result of taking initiative. You want to help a potential employer connect your motivation with quantifiable results.





Personal and interpersonal
Working with others is a key part of any job, and a hiring team will want to understand more about how you have handled situations involving pressure and conflict.

Tell me about a time when you felt under pressure. How did you cope with that situation? 

Has one of your previous roles ever shifted in a significant way? How did you handle it when your responsibilities changed? 

Tell me about a time when you disagreed with a manager's decision. How did you communicate with your supervisor? 

What they’re really asking: Do you work well with others? How do you handle more difficult situations? 

What your answer can feature: Solutions. In talking about previous conflicts or stressful situations, you’ll inevitably need to frame the problem.





Remote work
As opportunities for remote (or hybrid) work continue to grow, companies will look for employees who can manage their own time and work independently.

How do you develop and maintain your schedule while working remotely? 

What communication tools do you rely on to stay in touch with team members spread across multiple time zones? 

What’s a time when you didn’t know how to do something? How did you seek out the proper information to complete your task? 

What they’re really asking: Can we trust you to do the work without close supervision?  

What your answer can feature: Relevant knowledge. If you’ve worked remotely, make sure to explain what you did to make things run smoothly on your end. If you haven’t worked remotely, research common tools that remote companies use (like Slack and Zoom) so that you can provide specific examples of what you would do.



Managerial and leadership
Whether you manage people or projects, showcasing important leadership skills means you know how to prioritize, collaborate, delegate, and more.

How do you delegate tasks and priorities to members of your team? 

What do you do if a direct report continually underperforms? What steps would you take to improve their performance?  

What kind of leadership inspires you most? Why? 

What they’re really asking: What kind of leader are you? How do you manage team members? How will you keep things operating smoothly? 

What your answer can feature: Innovation. Where possible, share about times that you’ve approached management and leadership with an innovative, flexible attitude.




